To me, the most interesting thing about
studying Netflix and talking to Reed is
that it is as a business probably the
single most relatable example since we
all watch Netflix [music] of two really
simple ideas that everyone talks about
but are very hard to do in practice. The
first is this notion of finding [music]
a simple idea and taking it
extraordinarily seriously. Netflix has
effectively been [music] scaling up its
core original model since its inception.
Reed talks in our conversation about how
even the DVDs were nothing but a
stepstone towards the streaming future
that [music] they envisioned at the very
outset of the company's founding in 1997
and simply letting that idea play out
over decades without [music] getting
distracted and how powerful that can be.
And the second is this notion of talent
density. This is a term that now [music]
gets thrown around every major company
and really it was Reed and Netflix that
[music] pioneered this concept of what
can happen if you set and keep a talent
bar exceptionally high. We get into why
that's difficult, what Netflix [music]
did to make that talent density bar work
and sustain itself over decades. This
conversation really is an ode to those
[music] two simple concepts. And of
course, in this case, it's fun to learn
about because it's something that we all
watch every day.
I want to go back to your first business
and the sort of origin story of this
notion of talent density that you've
become very famous for. We'll talk about
talent density for sure. It's one of
these ideas that's now ubiquitous in in
most technology companies. I think you
were sort of the originator of the
concept, but I want to hear how you came
to learn that lesson in the first place.
Presuming that your very first team
wasn't just incredibly talent dense and
perfect. What what was the early origin
story of that concept? So I founded uh
pure software in 1990. Uh we grew kind
of typical great software company
doubling. I wasn't careful about it and
I would say talent density declined
in later when I analyzed that company uh
we went public in 95 got acquired in 97
and when I analyzed looking back what
happened one of the major things was
declining talent density and then with
declining talent density you need a
bunch of rules to protect against the
mistakes and that only further drives
out the high caliber people and so it
was through that experience that I
realized okay I've tried to run software
like a manufacturing plant and um
reducing error and putting in process um
and then that doesn't get high
productivity or high talent and we
should manage uh software much more
artistally with inspiration rather than
management. So typically we humans um we
value being nice and we value loyalty.
And yet in the workplace that's
attention
because being nice is in contrast or
intention with being honest. I I
generally like people that are nice. Uh
and yet I want you in the workplace to
be honest with each other so that we're
more productive. So we have to find a
way to give each other permission to not
be conventionally nice and instead to be
um focused on the team success uh which
is being very direct. Similarly with
loyalty we come to see loyalty which is
something in your family like you would
never fire your brother if you were
tight on money. Okay, you would share
and and that's what we admire and yet in
a company what we do is we lay people
off. And so this whole idea that a
company is a family, it's unintentional
uh but it just derives from all the
structures of society were family. You
know all companies used to be family
companies and then corporations have
grown more recently. All countries used
to be family countries and kingdoms and
so basically family was the deep
organizing unit. So it's [clears throat]
natural that that spills in to how we
think about an organization.
But the contrast is a professional
sports team and that's an admired model.
It's really focused on achievement and
everyone understands that you change
players as you need to try to win the
championship. It's changing the language
that you use and don't use things like
we're a family. I treat you like my
family. Okay, which is like a little bit
true but not true enough. and instead
we're a professional sports team and we
all got to fight every year to keep our
position because if we can upgrade we
must to achieve the winning of the
championship which is producing a great
company.
>> How do you protect against uh the
natural
way that companies seem to bleed down
towards lower talent density over time
like there there seem to be very few
organizations that get it high and then
keep it at that same level especially
with scale. What are the ways that you
learn to keep talent density as high as
possible as the company grew so big?
>> Well, as the companies grow, uh, you may
be able to pay people more. So, uh, that
will help. If you think of the sports
team in the biggest markets, they can
afford the highest compensation and like
the Yankees or the LA Dodgers, they
often have the best uh, players. It's
not uh direct uh onetoone on how much
you spend and quality but there is a
strong correlation. I think the second
thing you can do is continue to really
evangelize the benefits of talent
density over like total quantity so that
more and more of your leaders get adept
at managing for for density.
>> I would love to talk about each stage of
the funnel to creating talent density in
in a business starting with how you
found people in the first place. what
the most reliable ways were of finding
people and then also how you evaluated
them and then I want to talk about you
know further down the funnel but
starting just with like top of funnel
what were the most effective ways of
finding people that had the potential to
be extremely talented inside of one of
your businesses
>> I've come to look at it more like
keeping a pretty broad funnel
>> and hiring a lot of people and then you
know over the first year you really get
to know them and you can figure out um
what you want to do you want to keep
them or not
>> you know other people have a view like
keep uh very hard to get in but then you
can stay no matter what and I I think
that's been more of the Google
orientation as an example and it comes
from their graduate school background
right it's really hard to get into
Stanford graduate school um
[clears throat] and then it's hard to
get pushed out too and so it's just
natural that they mapped themselves onto
that model and there's some benefits of
that but that's a different model and
mine is more
have relatively open doors. We'll
interview broadly and try to select what
we think is the best person.
>> And it stands to reason that maybe your
one-year attrition rate was higher than
say Google's or somebody else's.
>> Oh, quite a bit.
>> Um what was it like? Do you do you
remember the
>> 20% in the first year?
>> And so give that's pretty high. Um what
would you tell people on the way in or
tell the organization about that rate
itself to make sure it didn't spook
people that lots of people would leave
after? Well, it did spook people. And
so, um, I would say we want, it's only
fair to let them know what they're
getting into.
>> Yeah.
>> We would say we're not going to
guarantee you a lot, but we'll guarantee
that we'll always surround you with
great people and have you work on hard
problems. That was our core. That you
may not be happy, the hours may be long,
you know, the food may be okay, but like
the essence of what we can do at work is
hard problems with great people. You
think of it, if your primary orientation
is around job security and you're
willing to put up with working with
uneven levels of talent, then there are
other companies that are a better fit.
>> And there's some benefits of that, you
know, which is you you have stability in
your life. Um, if you're more of a
performance junkie and the thing that
makes you vibe the most is working
around incredibly talented people and
running fast and loose with great
teammates, then you're willing to put up
with the job and security. Nobody likes
it, but you're willing to put up with it
to get the performance density.
>> You said fast and loose. Can you say
more about loose? If you overmanage, for
example, a tight process or specific
hours that you have to be in the office
or a wide variety of things, you filter
out uh performance and creativity. And
the looser that you can run, the more
creative that the organization will be.
So we talk about it as managing on the
edge of chaos. You don't actually want
to fall into chaos. Okay? In chaos, the
product barely gets released. It's full
of bugs. People are upset. Payroll's not
made. Lots of bad things happen. Okay.
But it's getting us close to that edge
of chaos where there's last minute saves
and a lot of dynamism uh as you can
possibly tolerate as opposed to say a
semiconductor factory which is trying to
reduce variation and reduce error to get
rid of variance. And if you're going to
be a creative organization, you want to
be high variance, high creativity,
uh, and again managing on the edge of
chaos.
>> I'm curious with the 20% attrition rate,
what you learned about letting people go
well and the right way. How did how did
you get really good at that specific
part of the life cycle?
>> Well, I think there's two parts to it.
One is to release the moral thing. Most
uh managers uh they're people managers.
They like people, they don't want to
hurt people. U so it's very difficult
for them. And so one of the best things
is to do large severance packages like
four to nine months of uh salary. Um and
so it feels expensive at first, but one
is it makes the person who's let go uh
feel a little bit better because they've
got a bunch of money in their pocket.
Two, it helps the manager do their job
because then they don't feel as bad in
letting the person go. And then you know
it just sets up a much better mutual
feeling. Um and then the third on the
terminations is setting a context where
it's not a moral issue. You didn't fail.
It's just like a professional sports
player. We think we can get someone
better here. Okay. So it's a pity for
the person. U but it's seen as natural
as opposed to like a a failure. So,
typically I would say something like,
"Hey, I see you know, Patrick, you're
working really hard. You're trying. I'm
so sorry to tell you that, you know,
honestly, if you quit, I wouldn't try to
change your mind to stay." Okay? And the
the reason I wouldn't change your mind
to stay is I think I could get someone
um in in your role that could do what
you're doing, plus even more. And here's
why. And that the way the company is set
up is if I wouldn't work to keep you,
um, I'm supposed to let you go. In that
way, we're sort of executing on an
agreed upon framework, that whole keeper
test framework.
>> How did the keepers test literally work?
Like how was it rolled out across the
company?
>> Well, it was always there that, you
know, in the original slide deck, you
know, it was adequate performance gets a
generous severance package. Okay. So,
it's really just starting up front and
that the test that we encourage people
to use is if someone were quitting,
would you try to get them to stay to
keep them? Um, because that turns out to
be a good test uh relative to, you know,
all the relief we sometimes feel when
someone not great moves on. Was there an
episode in Netflix's history that you
can remember where you were on the edge
of chaos and it like really it either
did or very nearly cost you very dearly
>> during the you know uh Netflix 25 years.
There's a couple small things that we
did wrong and one big one being the the
Quickster separation of DVD and
streaming.
>> So maybe taking the Quickster example,
what is it like to see high talent
density operate against something like
that? So, um, Quickar, uh, for your
listeners was a sad episode at, uh,
2011,
uh, where I became convinced we really
had to go all in on streaming and drop
DVD and put DVD in its own company that
would drift along and free ourselves
from that. Unfortunately, most of the
customers were mostly using DVDs.
Disagree. So, so yeah, uh, they were
still mailed me the discs. Um, and so,
uh, they didn't like it. lots of
cancellations, stock dropped by 75%. So,
it was a tough time um as we had to and
ultimately it's the right thing to have
separated DVD and streaming, but we did
it too fast. But the the big analysis of
it afterwards was lots of the executives
thought that it was very problematic.
But they kind of said to themselves,
geez, Reed's made, you know, 18
decisions uh right before, so you know,
I'm probably wrong and Reed's probably
right. So they kind of suppressed their
own significant doubts. And what we
realized is if they all knew of each
other's doubts, they would have been
much more likely to weigh in to probably
just have us do it slower. And we
instituted a much more collective uh
information process on decisions going
forward where everybody weighed in 10
togative -10 on decisions and it's all
in a big shared document so everyone
sees what everyone else thinks. So that
way if we had had that um decision
process in place then I think I may well
have thought well these are all
fantastic people and they're all
horrified at this idea. So I may be
right but let's at least go a little bit
you know uh more gently to figure out
that and we wouldn't have had as deep a
hole. If you think about all the value
creation that you've been a part of or
the leader responsible for, was most of
that the result of a of a fairly non-
consensus
idea because that seems like a consensus
process or at least um if not decision
by consensus at least being aware of
what the consensus is and I'm curious
the about that tension there. It seems
like very often non-conensus is the is
where the value comes from. Is is that
generally true in in your personal
history of decisions that you made that
created most of the value? Well, I think
you want to be super careful here
because this is the source of much
value. [clears throat] You want to be
totally independent in your thinking and
not consensusoriented at all, but you
want to know what other people are
thinking otherwise you're, you know,
flying blind. So, I think there's a high
value on information, gathering
opinions, but then not averaging them.
Uh, we would never do that. We were very
clear that the concept was the informed
captain. So we wanted to make it like
the captain of a ship. Okay, the captain
of the ship makes a decisions but um
it's good for them to collect a lot of
information. And so we were very strong
on no committees, individuals make
decisions, but we want them to be
informed about that decision. Um and
then it's up to them to make it. I'm so
interested in the bucket of seems like a
bad idea but turns out to be a good idea
because there's just less competition if
it sort of seems bad.
What is the what has been your process
of coming up with good ideas in the
first place?
>> I fall in love with ideas easily. Yeah.
Um and so like I'll see some combination
or insight. So uh the original one was
that DVD which was just coming out when
Netflix started uh was very lightweight
and this was coming out of the AOL
mailing CDs to everyone to install AOL
on CD ROM. So I was kind of like pretty
familiar with mailing because I've
gotten tons of these just through the
mail. DVD for movies was just replacing
VHS or just starting. So I kind of like
clicked on that. And then the classic
computer networking uh thought
experiment you do is kind of what's the
bandwidth of a FedEx of a taped you know
a tape through the mail and it turns out
you calculate it and it's like terabits
per second at low cost you know to send
a backup tape by FedEx. So you start
thinking about networks a little bit
differently. So all those combinations
made me think of DVD by mail as an
extremely efficient digital distribution
network that someday um the internet
would be faster than and cheaper than
and lower latency than it was an unus I
never thought I love the mail business.
I thought I love network business to
deliver me. The contrarian part of it
was when we were fundraising in uh 1997
everyone was excited by internet
delivery and I'm like but it's not even
close u but didn't matter they were
excited about it and so it was very we
were contrarian and we had a contrarian
thesis that we could build a business
with DVD and then transition it to
streaming. So um and it's precisely
because of that contrarian thesis that
we didn't have much competition in that
and um because it worked [snorts] um you
know we created great value.
>> When did f streaming first enter your
mind as like clearly this is the place
that we're going to have to ultimately
go.
>> Oh that was from the beginning.
>> From the very beginning
>> that's [clears throat] why we named the
company Netflix is internet movies.
>> Yeah. And so it was it was really just
about managing the transition even from
day one. designing the efficient system
for DVDs was just a notch on the
timeline getting to streaming.
>> Correct. It was one digital distribution
network and then eventually we would
replace it with another.
>> Um and and we knew that would be a
challenge, but we knew the best way to
be successful at it was to get big on
DVD. Um and so that became for the first
decade that's all we worked on.
>> One of the other really cool things
about your background is that for a long
time you were on the boards of I think
Facebook and Microsoft. I don't know if
you're still on those two boards or not.
Um,
>> no I'm not.
>> But today I think you're around the
anthropic board and the Bloomberg board.
So you've had this sort of, of course,
Netflix itself at the center of
technology. You've had this very cool
360 view of the probably the most
interesting era of technology
development ever. I'm curious from those
seats what the technology landscape
looks like to you today. Like what are
the key considerations, things that you
have your attention on that you that
seem the most important to you from
those vantage points? Well, first of
all, because of uh exponential
phenomena, it's always the coolest time
ever to be in [laughter] computer
science. I mean, you know, in the 1980s,
I thought, "Oh my god, so much better
than the 1960s." So, I just think that's
a it'll always be true.
>> It'll always be true. I would say as a
CEO at Netflix, I learned so much being
on the boards of Microsoft and Facebook.
You know, they had quite different
businesses. Um, but uh they made very
interesting trade-offs the way they
thought about things. I mean, both of
them were very long-term oriented in
what they thought they were willing to
lose money in certain new areas for a
decade. What I loved about looking at um
Facebook's business was, you know, ad
supported um and everything they did
that was on the core like Instagram
worked incredibly well and when they
tried to do crypto or when they tried to
do other things that were not big ad
supported businesses, it didn't work
well. And so that's an example of um
companies get good at something and then
if you can add to the core mechanism uh
that's great. So we've always wanted to
add content to the Netflix subscription
to make it more and more useful uh more
and more enjoyable you know but kind of
keep it like one big model as opposed to
also do theatrical movies or you know
also do something else as a way to
expand revenue. So to answer your
question, I would say trying to find
simple large models that if they work um
you can continue to expand and expand on
the kind of core monetization engine
that you've already got. Um or if you
look at Microsoft's case, you know, it's
building high-scale software. And then
I'm on the board of Bloomberg, which is
owned by Mike Bloomberg. It's a trading
stations of Wall Street and uh media
around that. and he's been incredible at
kind of this long-term orientation to
having this intimate relationship with
the customers like becoming a trusted
utility uh for the industry that's been
very powerful and so big Moes uh you
know for that business um that are
really customer loyalty that he's been
serving you know in multiple dimensions
for a for a long time and then Anthropic
I've only been on the board for a year
and it's a you know a wild uh story
because you know it's growing so fast.
>> What have you learned from Mark? You
mentioned what you learned from
Facebook, but what did you learn from
him specifically?
>> You know, super committed like when you
look at uh the metaverse and the you
know convinced that there's going to be
something beyond the phones maybe
that'll be a glasses format and not
wanting to be dependent on it, wanting
to be really the invention of that layer
which is you know extraordinarily
ambitious. Um, I probably would have
just been like the ad giant if I was
doing that business and try to like go
after Tik Tok. Um, but he wants to do
bigger and broader things for society.
It's great because he does amazing
amounts of innovation funded uh with
what would otherwise be the profits of
the company.
>> You've been on these great boards. You
had a board yourself, of course. What
advice would you give to people to
either be a great board member or run a
great board process themselves?
So typically um board members u want to
add value. The problem is by the
conflict rules they don't really know
the business. They're not you know if
you run an airline you can't be on
another airlines board but you're doing
that board one day a quarter for the
most part. And on one day a quarter it
is super hard to add value. And so what
you see is a lot of directors who
struggle to add value and then
management has to be super polite to
them. management can't tell them you
don't know what you're talking about.
Okay? Because they run the thing. And so
you see this dysfunctional thing where
board members ask hard questions and
management, you know, uh ducks and
weaves and it's not very functional. So
I would say um first part is board
members to realize okay I'm not here to
add value. They can hire consultants who
know the industry and are
[clears throat] not conflicted and that
they pay for the advice. So I shouldn't
spend my time trying to give advice. So
then what am I doing? I'm here as a
board member as an insurance layer.
Okay? If the company falls apart, I will
step in and be part of replacing the
CEO. And that's basically the entire
job, which is replacing the CEO. Well,
okay. And um and to do that and to have
the confidence to do that, you have to
learn the business. So you can't be
asleep. You've got to really ask a lot
of questions and learn what drives the
profit streams, how does the business
work, um what are the issues with it.
But again, you're not trying to solve
those problems. You're trying to get a
grasp of the business so that you can
determine, you know, who might be the
best person to run the firm. And if you
get that right, as say Microsoft
shareholders or board did with Satcha
Nadella, then the business takes off and
all the advice in the world, you know,
doesn't matter compared to that. If
you're on a board, uh, don't measure
yourself by did you give a suggestion.
Measure yourself by did you get more and
more prepared for the small chance that
you will have to take big action.
[laughter]
And so it's a lot like a firefighter who
drills and drills and drills and, you
know, hopes that there's never a fire.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. [snorts]
>> When selecting for people that would be
that insurance layer for your own
business, what did you select for?
because a lot of these boards are full
of very fancy people like you that are
great names to have on a you know
website as a board of directors and that
seems to be a selection criteria versus
like this person's actually going to be
good at this insurance layer thing. How
did you select board members?
>> Yeah, people who I believe will be wise
in a crisis
um and so uh you know we talk through
the the board model you know we call it
uh extreme duty of care. Okay. So duty
care is one of the responsibilities of a
director and we amp it up that they
really have to know what's going on. We
ask directors to come to management
meetings so they can watch what's going
on, watch the sausage being made. Um
again, not so adding value, but so
they're highly informed. Um and so we
look for people who are wise in crisis.
And so a board interview process would
be those kinds of things. Tell me about
different, you know, business crises
that have happened. and uh in case that
happens that they would be wise.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guardrails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. ROG does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at rogo.ai.
AI/invest. The best AI and software
companies from OpenAI to cursor to
Perplexity. Use work OS to become
enterprise ready overnight, not in
months. Visit works.com to skip the
unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product. How much of your
time when you were running the business
full-time was systems structuring and
thinking around the business versus like
the marginal, you know, strategic
initiative or something?
>> I never like booked hours on my calendar
to like, you know, think about the
culture. you you end up just trying to
make things better and then watching
kind of what's going well and what's not
and making observations and then here's
an example from maybe 2004
on we had open compensation
so uh basically the top 100 or 500
people of the company could see all the
comp throughout the company and the
rationale was then they could keep like
similar people in a similar vein and uh
and there would be more trust around uh
gender, around other dimensions that
could be discriminatory because the data
was all out for everyone to see. That
was all true. Um but it also created a
lot of petty rivalries. You know, I make
a, you know, huge amount of money, this
other person makes a huge amount plus
$10,000 more. And um and so it got
pretty distracting. And ultimately we
put it to a question of the VPs about 10
years later, 2016.
uh [clears throat] and they decided to
take it away from themselves and from
everybody else and do the traditional uh
you know you know your direct reports
and their teams but not the whole
company. Um so I would say that was an
experiment
in [clears throat] human nature which
got resolved pretty decisively to be
less mavericky but it ended up working a
little better. So again, we would take
on an experimental view on things and
that's a good example because then you
can see like we're not um you know
geniuses. We're just willing to question
things and try them. So we did open comp
for a number of years and then uh
decided that it's net costs were
negative.
>> Another strategic question that always
fascinated me about Netflix was how you
determined how much to spend on
originals and original content. as much
as we possibly could
>> and and yeah, so say say more about just
like the the core calculus or thinking
there um I'm sure there would be some
directors that would accept an unlimited
amount of your money to make
>> well there's there's how much on any one
show that's a different question but in
terms of the total budget
>> we would always try to shovel money into
that uh on the hopes of creating the
great next you know K-pop demon hunters
>> um in terms of any one show then the
question is you know what's the
likelihood um based on what we've seen
um that this is going to be big and it's
also a competitive market and the very
first original series that we had that
helped make our reputation was House of
Cards and we had to bid that away from
HBO. So as Media Rights Capital was
making it, they had bids both from HBO
and us and we were not we were a DVD
company. Okay. So, we had to overpay um
relative to HBO and uh and then they
went with us. Um and we had to overpay
by a bunch because, you know, it's a
it's a lot of risk.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and then they came through and made a
fantastic show. Um and then we were off
to the races and original content. And
it's a simple way to think about it
almost like one would think about a
venture capital portfolio or something
that you want to make lots of bets and
you don't know exactly which one's going
to be K-pop Demon Hunters, but that
there being a K-pop Demon Hunters
[clears throat] is the thing that
matters that you have some dominant
massive franchise.
>> Um, very much so. Uh, but it's similar
to venture capital if every A round were
100 million and there was just an A
round. So it tends to be pretty much a
single round to
>> fund the construction.
>> You do get sequels and other things you
have option rights too.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh but that would be the big difference
from venture. If you think about the
portfolio of content, what else would
surprise people about the conversations
happening inside the business as you
especially in the early days of
developing that portfolio? The key the
considerations that matter to you as you
expanded it so that it's a combination.
I mean, now it's so many things, but in
the early days, you know, you're
obviously making choices. It's House of
Cards. It's not something else and
there's trade-offs. What what would
surprise people about the conversations
that led to the portfolio that that you
ultimately chose? I mean everything for
us was [clears throat] around
reinforcing the brand and trying to
figure out what should the brand be. So
>> the cable networks um by necessity were
narrow brands because they got one cable
slot.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And so FX and Hallmark were both
interesting doing different types of
content but the handle on the brand gave
you the type of content which was
inherently pretty niche because it had
one network slot. and we were doing
something that had all the network
slots. And so then we spent a lot of
time thinking about how much of the
programming do we want to be Hallmark uh
soft easy romantic stories feel good
versus uh FX and be sort of cutting edge
and violent and dark um uh versus uh the
comedy central. Okay. So, you know, our
main issue relative to the industry was
that we had this incredible breadth of
content to choose from. And on any new
film or series, [clears throat] unless
it's completely derivative, uh you know,
there's just so many variables compared
to other things. So, it ends up, you can
do asset allocation, which is how much
in comedy, how much in drama.
>> Okay. But in terms of the stock picking,
it ended up being intuition and people's
judgment. And then we promoted those
people with great judgment um who got
this right again and again and had we
called it great taste but they had more
than taste. They had taste and judgment
about you know would the people deliver
um would this come together and all
kinds of ways. So it became just people
picking and so then it's trying to
figure out uh how much money to put in
each area and then the people in those
areas would figure out how to best spend
it. The other side of the equation of
course is the beauty of the business
model is fixed cost for a piece of
content and then a growing subscriber
base across which to spread those costs.
But that requires that you grow the
subscriber base. How did those two
interrelate? Like what did you learn
about what sorts of fixed spend on
content would create you know great and
reliable and high subscriber growth.
What I loved about Microsoft and
Facebook's business is they at that
point basically had one big product or
you know maybe two highly related ones
and then it was grow those products to
be you know 50 billion in revenue on a
product. So when I started Netflix I was
like well thankfully we can do this as
you know one uh really big product
because entertainment is an extremely
large market. Basically, every human on
the planet watches television, okay, to
varying degrees, but uh it's a deeply
human thing [clears throat] to watch
stories. Uh and so then the question is,
okay, what percent of that could we
capture? And so, you know, even today
we're only about Netflix is about 10% of
US television. We've got a long way to
go and internationally it's less than
that. generally plenty of in terms of
how do we think about uh subscriber
growth. We knew that if we could produce
better television, make it lower cost
and more enjoyable being on demand that
there would be a huge market for it. So
is it was kind of constrained on
essentially product quality. What kind
of shows do we have? Now the streaming
is kind of flawless and not
differentiated between competitors. But
for a decade we did it much better than
our peers. That other 90% is that
defined as just traditional television
or does that include like YouTube
watched on
>> No, YouTube uh is about 12%. I mean you
know so
>> so includes everything includes
[clears throat] everything sports video
gaming it's uses of the television
screen. I mean we compete for time uh on
mobile phones too but we're very small
there. it's not a big use case. Um and
television were a big use case but still
um you know again under really it's
under 10%.
>> If you think about that percentage as an
important thing for Netflix the business
what are the competitive frontiers or
fields on which you feel like you're
competing against something like
YouTube. It's more easy to imagine
versus cable cable or network shows or
something like this but versus something
like YouTube that's sort of a a pure UGC
platform. Do you think about it that
way? like we are competing against them
and therefore we want to do certain
things to win.
>> Well, they're growing and we're growing.
Um and traditional linear is shrinking.
So, you're right that
>> [clears throat]
>> um mostly we both compete with linear
TV.
>> Um but we do worry about uh YouTube
because it's sort of a substitution
threat. Does it get better and better
with AI creators and it just becomes,
you know, more and more of people's
time? uh and that that's the user
generated world and it's not really user
generated it's on spec that is there are
some very professional people who make
content for YouTube but they don't get
paid on it in advance then they put it
up and they see what kind of ad revenues
they get so in our case you know we
preund the programs uh which gives them
a bigger budget they don't have to do it
on spec um and that's really the biggest
difference in the business model um but
it's ultimately do we produce produce uh
content like The Perfect Neighbors, a a
documentary that just came out, won all
these awards and it's been the number
one documentary this last month, you
know, clever, fresh perspective
um content like that. Uh or K-pop Demon
Hunters, which was our hit this summer.
So, you know, it's ability to create
those hits.
>> What is that magic like? what what what
is shared amongst the people like Ted
and others that have been able to
reliably and consistently create be a
part of creating those big hits over
time.
>> If only it were reliable and consistent.
[laughter]
>> I I mean I think K-pop was probably our
30th animated film.
>> Fascinating.
>> Okay. So it's not at all uh reliable and
consistent again
>> it no it is a lot more like that of art
and seeing the contrarian edge and
what's the story I mean imagine the
pitch for K-pop demon hunters [laughter]
right you know uh so it doesn't fit a
set of formulas um so in that way it is
a lot like venture um and also that a
few of the companies will generate
outsized returns
>> what do you think will be the most
interesting impacts of AI on on the
Netflix business specifically and this
could mean from the perspective of cost
to create the content. It could mean for
the service, it could mean for any. How
do you how do you where does your mind
go as you think about the raw
capabilities of of the technology?
>> Well, visual effects is one um where uh
there's a lot of that workflow that can
be automated. But in terms of like
recognizing a K-pop demon hunters at a
script stage uh you know or or pitch
stage, which is the biggest value
creator, you know, which things do we
back? um that will be a far distant uh
skill. So you know eventually AI might
eat up everything and be better than
humans on everything. But you know in
terms of the sequencing so think of a
when uh AI [clears throat] is not
particularly incented and the companies
are not to do long form character
development but at some point they may
do that and focus on that and then the
AIs will be winning the booker prize and
you know uh doing the best fiction of
the world and remember we're only
interested in like the top 0.001%
of the of the stories that get written.
So simply writing a story, I mean
there's a million film students, you
know, we could just go to them. So the
issue is trying to find one that's
really unusual, extraordinary, and
recognizing that one early. So um I
think AI will have had a lot of other
effects before it it uh hits us on that.
>> As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
and scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
>> Can you imagine kinds of innovation in
the form factors or formats of shows?
Like it seems like we've got a couple,
you know, there's the show, there's the
documentary, there's the full length
feature movie. Can you imagine lots of
different kinds of form factors starting
to proliferate?
>> Well, let's um step back a second and
think about contrarian thinking
generally. So, you love contrarian
thinking, right? But you probably need
to remember that contrarian thinking
most of the time is wrong,
>> right? And once in a while it's right
and that's when you get the big reward.
But you have to say most of the time
contrarian thinking is wrong. Um and the
conventional thinking is right. So for
example on formats people have been
trying to think about multi-ending
design your own story
uh you know short form uh you know there
was quibby there's all kinds of things
right and the enduring aspect of a film
at you know one and a half to three
hours as a story has stayed strong like
the enduring form of a novel or the
short story or the TV series. So these
things are tapping into something human
um and that other things. So you got
video gaming as a a different modality
um and that's quite a bit different but
like most of the hybrids between TV
series that you kind of interact with
you know have been you know very small
markets. It doesn't mean we won't
eventually come up with a new art form
that's quite different. Um but I don't
think it's as easy as um you know choose
your own adventure. Those aspects the
particular ones is we're in leanback
mode um with [clears throat] uh TV and
we're mostly wanted to tell us a story.
If you think of young kids,
two-year-olds, they're half of the time
they're like, you know, daddy read me a
story and half of the time it's daddy
play with me. And these like are two
different modalities um that are
different. one is passive and I mean I
again I think it's very biological and
we're selected for it and one's very
active and that but one of those uh
becomes TV and another becomes video
game.
>> Um I'm also fascinated by the technology
backbone and story behind Netflix the
sort of invisible part of the business
everyone just takes for granted they can
hit a button and have this beautiful
thing pop up but I know there's quite a
lot of building that happened behind the
scenes. Can you tell that part of the
Netflix story of what it took to the
infrastructure-wise and technology-wise
to make what we all enjoy possible?
>> Well, it's always been a sort of medium
barrier to entry. Um, I would say uh
first with DVDs and we had incredible
sorting and shipping machines and postal
integration and you know I used to spend
all this time on types of polycarbonate
plastics that break and don't break and
we were impressing plants and the
biggest issue we had was that the DVD
would get to you without cracking or
shipping or being damaged if it was on
time. The postal carriers didn't steal
it. So there was like you know a huge
amount of machinery to shipping a
million red envelopes a day consistently
you know kind of FedEx style right and
then certainly uh streaming the
mechanics of getting the bits to people
uh you know was challenging. We first uh
launched in 2007 and for probably 15
years the internet was underpowered and
you had to do a lot of clever
engineering things but for the most part
the you know there's a hundred companies
that stream now uh consumers can't
particularly tell a difference between
them. So I would say that's now just
become part of the base um uh systems
and commoditized. What's unique is still
being able to do the AI recommendations.
Uh all the deep learning on what do you
you know there's a thousand things on
Netflix you would enjoy which one would
you enjoy most at what time. Um you know
that's still a big area of uh tech
innovation. Um the gaming is you know
we're we're trying to push in different
types of games and figure out gaming in
addition to TV series and films.
>> Why do gaming at all? Like if you're so
good at the core thing and there's room
for scale still you're only 10%. Why why
bother with gaming?
>> Yeah. Um we used to just be movies um
and you know then we expanded TV series
and we're really glad we did that and
then we expanded into unscripted
content. Um you know Love is Blind. So
we've always been expanding in new
categories and gaming is just another
category of entertainment. Um, and so
we've got some cool stuff going on the
TV where your uh phone is the remote
control which has uh, you know, higher
latency, but it's easy for party mode
type games and it's, you know, really
fun on these sort of social
interactions.
>> How do you know when to keep betting on
something and how long-term to be behind
something like like gaming is a great
example. I'm sure there's examples of
things you tried that didn't ultimately
work that you stopped doing.
>> Sure. Well, let's do one of those. If
you look at the New York Times, uh the
January 2006, there was a launch of
Netflix friends.
>> So this was friendto friend sharing
about uh films and what you were
watching. You know, Facebook was still
just at Harvard. Okay. And then we
worked for two or three years on that.
Could we get people sharing? What DVDs
were you picking? Could you give each
other? We tried different permission
schemes. Uh then Facebook started doing
that whole integration, you know, where
they did photos and you could share via
Facebook. So then we said, "Okay, that's
the problem. You don't want to set up
your own network." And so let's all
share via Facebook. And then that didn't
work any better. Then we tried one or
two other variants. But it was probably
eight solid years. And that's part of
what got me on the Facebook board, which
is trying to figure out more of this
>> of, you know, how is social going to be?
And ultimately that probably got solved
by Tik Tok.
>> How do you think about Tik Tok? What are
your impressions of it?
>> It's like old cable used to be. and
you'd change channels and you'd just be
there numb changing channels
>> uh looking for something to watch but
really it was the numbness of the new or
the endorphin hit of the new thing
constantly so it's hitting that part of
uh enjoyment so I mean very creative as
a business and all of that and very
effective but I would say not a thing I
want to spend a lot of time on
>> when you were CEO I'm curious how you
thought about uh generating and keeping
business power and then c- which leads
to free cash flow and then allocation of
free cash flow. Those seem to be, you
know, especially as once you've got
product market fit and you're growing
and you're huge, those are really
important things. How much would you sit
down and think about where does our
power come from? Is it scale? Is it some
other cornered resource? Is it some set
of different things and and really like
guide the decisions to get more power?
How much was that like specifically on
your mind?
>> Power is a way of saying above market
margins. So the theory is that we can
all earn a marginal rate of you know
maybe 6%. Um but to earn above that is
[clears throat] because it's hard for
competitors uh to do what you do. Um and
then you can get an above market margin.
So um we definitely spent time thinking
about that. You know which things should
we license our content exclusively
non-exclusively our deals on televisions
and those kinds of things. They would
often want to tax us. So a typical
television maker thinks well Netflix
you're making a lot of money so if I'm
putting the app uh you know on the TV I
want 30% like Apple gets. Okay so there
would be battles over that and then
power is essentially could they sell a
TV without Netflix or could we how many
members would we lose if um Sony
televisions for example didn't have the
Netflix app. So that's an example of of
how that worked out. Amazon and Bezos
very famously uh for constantly
reallocating capital back into the
business to keep generating more
customer benefit which you know
obviously Netflix has done as well. How
did you think or would you think about
the point of the in the company's life
cycle to do more harvesting to pay
dividends to buy back shares to do this
sort of thing and just I'm just so
curious how you thought through like the
capital allocators toolkit of the things
that you could do with the capital that
you were generating. Well, in most
businesses that's highly material, you
know, building a lot more warehouses or
something. Um, but honestly for Netflix,
there's very little the capital
allocation. There's the total budget and
per show. But the biggest shows we have
like Stranger Things were less than 1%
of viewing in a year. So, we we have
extreme non-conentration
um and you know, lots of different
budgets and spread. There was very
little capex of any long-term nature.
margins were pretty close to free cash
flow and then we just have always done
buybacks with it rather than build it
up. It wasn't probably the related
tension was how profitable how soon.
Okay. So, uh it wasn't a strictly cash
one. is essentially a P&L margin
question. And what we decided is let's
have uh low margins relative to cable um
which ran at like 35 40% margins so that
we can invest a higher percentage of
revenue into the content to have better
content for our revenue level than we
would otherwise. Yeah.
>> And that became the fundamental lens
that we ran the business and they still
run it today.
>> How did you know when it was time to
leave being full-time CEO? Uh because
Greg and Ted were ready. Um so uh you
know I've been developing them for at
least a decade. Um and I felt like
coming out of COVID they were ready. Uh
and then unless I was going to be around
for another decade and train a different
set of people to take over this was the
time. Um so it was really driven from um
uh them and since they took over they've
tripled the stock and you know they've
done incredibly well. How does something
like the set of ideas we've talked about
so far translate to a totally different
domain like what you're doing with
Powder Mountain? Like it seems is such a
wildly different project um in almost
every way that I can imagine. It's very
very different. How much directly
translates and how much needs to be left
behind given the different nature of the
project?
>> So Powder Mountain is a ski mountain and
real estate uh development uh that fell
on hard times in Utah. So the original
people running it ran out of money. So
they never finished a lot of the
project. We happen to have a house there
and love the place. It's, you know,
natural beauty is insane. It's 10,000
acres. And so after retiring from
Netflix, [clears throat] I decided to
take control of it, invest in it, and do
a turnaround. And so then it's
rebuilding the staff, rebuilding the
vision. Um and I would say uh 90 plus
percent of talent density no rules rules
um the whole model has worked extremely
well and [clears throat] the ability to
move fast uh hire incredible people have
them do things. It's everyone being very
creative and I would say the talent
density model uh has has been worth the
pain i.e the turnover and has created an
amazing set of uh leaders throughout the
company.
>> How did you approach it from the
beginning in terms of the original
vision and plan? So, it's a distressed
asset um that you go in and and buy. How
do you determine the initial vision and
then what were the first couple steps to
execute against it?
>> There it was a series of transactions to
gain control. So, it took six months to
buy out a majority of uh the company of
the shareholders to have control.
everyone wants the billionaire to pay a
lot and being clear with them that you
know that this thing could collapse and
you know if if I don't come in that was
stage one then stage two was figuring
out okay this is a great mountain um but
if half of it were private uh like
Yellowstone club and half stayed public
as it was uh then it could be a real
win-win where they share operating costs
and are more efficient um and we can
then have a very uncrowded resort on the
public side. Um, which gets to uh
something that's gone on in the ski
industry, which is high crowds. So, it
gets to compete with that. And then on
the private side, it's building a 650
home community of uh ski lovers where
they get their basically their own
enormous ski resort uh the size of
Heavenly or Veil um just for the 600
home. So, it's it's pretty spectacular
>> in terms of uh what drives the ski
business. Yeah.
>> What what aside from the real estate
stuff, what are the most important
variables or considerations that you
you've figured out in your studying of
its history?
>> Yeah, skiing uh is about uh 1/8 or
onetenth as big as golf in terms of
number of people and uh playing. So, I'd
love to close some of that gap. You
know, it's cold. Um but it's very family
oriented. You get outdoors. It's social
with your friends on the lift. It's got
some of those same properties.
Interestingly, there there are 25,000 uh
golf courses in the US. Uh and about 20%
4,000 are private golf courses. And
private golf courses, you get better tea
times, the uh nice clubhouse atmosphere,
social, you get to know people. And
that's really what it is for private
skiing. Also, there's about 500 ski
areas instead of 25,000, but only three
are private. Yellowstone club, uh Wasach
Peaks Ranch, uh and Powder. Uh so it's
very underserved market relative to uh
golf.
>> What's most fun about it to you? The
whole project
>> that it's very rightrained. Um
everything at uh Netflix was very
strategic, collogical. Um a lot of big
competitors. Um in skiing the
competitors are very cooperative. It's I
think because you have, you know, 20 or
30 miles between you and um so it's a
lot more collegial. Um and it's
aesthetic. The the big wins we've done
have been uh building up the art at
Powder Mountain. Uh so there's got a lot
of outdoor land art that's incredibly
beautiful to uh ski through. So if
you've had the good fortune to go to
Storm King north of Manhattan. Okay. So
think of Storm King on a ski mountain.
>> Skiing through it.
>> Yes. And skiing through it. That's
>> Tell me about that part of it. So, how
did you conceive of that and how did you
execute it? Like how do you how does one
acquire Storm King like art for a ski
mountain?
>> Um well I think that for your audience
the conceptual parts the key which is we
wanted to have a ski resort and to
differentiate. Okay. So what are we
going to do in summer? Well you could do
zip lines and mountain biking but it's
like it's all been done over and over
and frankly it's high adrenaline and
it's like okay but it's not that great a
match for real estate sales. Um, but
most importantly, it's conventional.
It's been done. So, what's like
interesting and scalable and and uh
fantastic, but hasn't been done, and
that's the art part. And, you know, I'd
been to Storm King, but Storm King is a
level 600 acres. Um, so it's not like in
a mountain, but it is outdoor sculpture
and incredibly stunning. Um, so again,
it was that synthesis to then trying to
do that uh on a mountain. Um, and then
it was building in the curators and
getting the work going and now we've got
uh, you know, dozens of pieces already
in and a lot more coming and that that
side's really coming together as the
heart of our summer fall experience.
>> How did you decide to focus so much on
education as one of the buckets of your
time? We talked about Powder Mountain,
but education, charter schools, etc. is
a huge chunk of your time and and
philanthropy as well. What was it about
that sector that drew you? And I'm just
curious for you to riff on the problems
that you see in the space.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. I I spend
probably a third of my time on Powder
Mountain because it's a joy. And then on
the education side, I was a high school
math teacher as my first job out of
college. And so I've always,
[clears throat] you know, uh cared about
K12 and I've done a lot of philanthropy
in that sector over the last 25 years.
And then the new big thing is AI. So,
it's easy to then put those together and
how are we going to apply AI and it's
super well articulated by your your
prior uh guest around alpha school um is
[clears throat] kids should be taught
individually as opposed to having a
teacher stand in front of a class uh and
lecture to them and that that um
industrial model of the teacher the sage
on a stage we call it um you know needs
to be replaced with individualized
tutoring.
Prior to AI, individualized tutoring
would cost you, you know, [snorts]
$100,000 a year per kid. So, out of
reach of everyone. And so now with
software, we can have individualized
instruction. And the teachers become
more like social workers where they're
helping on discussion, uh, social
emotional learning, uh, a lot of the
more human and emotional factors. But
[snorts] the content transfer um you
know what were the roots of the civil
war how to do fractions
um that's all becoming software and
hopefully as quickly as possible because
then it's very global and because kids
will learn more.
>> What [snorts] do you think we can do to
speed that up the most? You mentioned it
could take decades because of the
regulated nature of the of schools.
Things move slowly. What could we do
that could speed that up? It's focused
on apps that really help kids learn
more. It's helping parents see that um
they all wonder, hey, with AI coming,
you know, and my kids uh six or 16,
what's going to happen to them in the
workplace? And they need, you know, more
and better skills than ever. Um that and
you know, every 16-year-old is learning
things, you know, on uh AI anyway. So,
it's having them be more uh focused on
that and less on traditional classrooms.
And you know, when you think about
classrooms, we use it uh in K12, we use
it in college, and then like in the
workplace, we never use it again. You
know, you did all this classroom
learning and it has like no bearing in
um you know, the your working life. And
so, again, it's really driving the
percentage of kids time um that's not in
a classroom. you know, as Joe says, it's
helping kids really love school um
because then they'll continue to love
learning and the classroom and the
boredom and frustration of that is uh at
the heart of it.
>> I'm curious as you think about the
future just broadly across all your
interests. Uh you've got a cool purview
on the world. What most worries you and
must what most excites you about the
future? um part of the anthropic camp
where it's good to talk about the
negatives, not because we think they're
going to happen, but because we'll lower
the chance of them happening if we're
honest and talk about them. So, uh I
don't think the AI boomer and doomer
thing is that useful. I think we all uh
want to acknowledge there's some pretty
significant risks. Um but they're not
dispositive and that we humans may be
able to capture tremendous benefit by
harnessing AI uh for higher quality of
life on a global basis. I'm on team
human for making that happen. Um but I
would say that's the biggest uh you know
swing factor of the next uh 50 years is
how well we do that.
>> What do you think the biggest risks are?
Well, the near-term risks are
unemployment causes uh societal chaos
and strife. So, if you were to get a lot
of unemployment, um then you might get
radical politicians promising to get rid
of AI or promising to do other things
and that destabilizes society. there's
the long-term power competition between
us and say China and then you know is
war become you know how many robots do
you produce and you know it' be
unfortunate if we both end up having to
spend a bunch of money on that because
of distrust kind of a new cold war would
soak up a lot of uh GDP growth um and
the benefit side would be that you know
we cure disease we get nuclear fusion
with you know huge amounts of lowcost
energy um humans don't have to work as
much, maybe not at all. They get to do
things like learn chess and learn how to
play all kinds of games. All learn you
learn biology for fun like you learn
chess today. Um so there's tremendous
upside uh to automating a lot of this um
and taking it to the next level.
>> My traditional closing question for
every interview is the same. What is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for you? 30 years ago I worked at a
startup. Um I was a frontline engineer
you know 28 so you know doing all
nighters all the time. Um and I used to
have uh coffee cups uh spread around my
desk and you know over a couple days it
would get kind of ugly and messy and and
then the janitor every now and then
would clean them all and I'd come in
there'd be clean mugs and I didn't think
about it that much. one morning woke
[clears throat] up early and in those
days you had to go in the office because
of the computers were there. You
couldn't take them home. Uh so I went
into the office at you know 4:35 in the
morning. Uh walked in went into the
bathroom uh and there was my CEO uh
washing coffee cups and I looked at him
and I was like uh Barry are those my
cups? And he said yeah. And I said have
you been washing my cups all year? And
he said yeah. And I said, "Why?" And he
said, "You do so much for us, and this
is the one thing I could do for you."
>> And uh you know, I was just very moved
uh about his humility and his uh caring,
kindness in in your question. Um and so
I felt like, God, I'll follow this guy
to the ends of the earth. And so simple
gestures.
>> Holy cow. Great story. Amazing place to
close. Thank you so much for your time.
>> Real pleasure, Patrick.
You know how small advantages compound
over time? That's true in investing and
just as true in how you run your
company. Your spending system is your
capital allocation strategy. Ramp makes
it smarter by default. Better data,
better decisions, better economics over
time. See how at ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street
connected to your data, understanding
your process and producing real outputs.
Check them out at rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity. Use Work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product. Ridgeline is
redefining asset management technology
as a true partner, not just a software
vendor. They've helped firms 5x in
scale, enabling faster growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.
Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.